We live in a world where everything is online. From our personal cellphone to social media accounts, we share a lot of personal data without thinking about it. From an innocent review of your favorite restaurant to your credit card details, there may be pieces of you all around the Internet. This also means your data may be scattered around the world and regularly at risk. What can you do to protect yourself? This article will give you a few simple tips to beef up your Internet Safety defensives.

Let's present a scenario. You are walking in the park and come across a set of keys with a thumb drive attached to it. You remember the time you lost your own keys at the local mall and never got them back. Paying for the locksmith to let you in was expensive. Thus, you begin pondering if this particular set of keys belongs to someone that needs to get into their house. Your desire to return the keys intensifies, as you do not want anyone else to have to pay to get their door open.

You look at the keys and the ground around you. You see nothing around you that could indicate the owner of the keys. You remember the thumb drive you had back in college that kept all your personal papers. Your name was on those papers. If you lost your thumb drive, someone could open up one of the files and see who was the owner. You begin wondering if this thumb drive might lead you to the owner of the keys and you race home.

Upon reaching your apartment, you put your own keys in the door and quickly step to your laptop. You slide the thumb drive into your laptop, open up your lid and type in your screen password. The laptop lights up, you click on your file browser and the screen goes dark. Thinking you forgot to charge your computer, you check the power adapter. This is odd, your computer is plugged in. You wonder how could the battery be dead. You press the power button and the laptop lights up. You breathe a sigh of relief and click the file browser again. Suddenly, the computer goes dark. You check the power adapter again, start it up and repeat the same process a couple of times. Your computer keeps shutting down. 

Feeling frustrated, you take your laptop to your local repairshop. They tell you it will be $75 per hour labor to look at it. You really need your laptop to wrap up a big financial report saved to the drive. All your many hours of hardwork on the report is on that laptop and getting it back is crucial to meeting the deadline your boss set. Thus, you reluctantly agree to leave the computer for repair.

A couple of hours later, you get a call from the repairshop. They were able to access the drive through a backdoor. All the files are locked with a password, except one. They tell you that they were able to quarantine the one file and open it. It is a ransom note from a hacker. If you'd like your files to open, it will cost you $10,000. 

The answer to preventing this scenario is painfully obvious. However, stop and think about all the ways files come to you. You may also download files directly from a website or open them directly sent from an email. Does your computer have adequate security to scan and quarantine files? If you are unsure of the answer to this question, it is time to consider antivirus protection. There are many providers out there and some may be at no cost or low cost to you. Windows Defender may already be installed on your Windows device. However, McAfee and Kapersky are two of the more known fee for service providers, if you are looking for an alternative solution. 

No matter what provider you choose, stay safe by being cautious before opening any files or inserting any unscanned device in your computer. Stay safe and ask questions before inserting any defice or downloading files to your computer.
